# Writing first C++ program

    #include<iostream>  

    using namespace std; 

    // main function - 
    // where the execution of program begins 
    int main() 
    { 
        // prints hello world 
        cout<<"Hello World"; 

        return 0; 
    } 

## #include:

- Lines that start with pound (#) sign are called directives
- These are processed by preprocessor which is a program invoked by the compiler
- Directive tells the compiler to include a file

https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/cc-preprocessors/

## using namespace std:

- imports the entirety of the std namespace into the current namespace of the program
- The statement using namespace std is generally considered a bad practice. When we import a namespace we are essentially pulling all type definitions into the current scope. The std namespace is huge
- he alternative to this statement is to specify the namespace to which the identifier belongs using the scope operator(::) each time we declare a type.

        #include <foo>
        #include <iostream>

        // Use cout of std library
        std::cout << "Something to display";

        // Use cout of foo library
        foo::cout < "Something to display";
        
    #### Why "using namespace std;"?
    
        - iostream is a file that has all the things like cout, endl and etc is defined
        - But if we try to use cout, endl in our code without specifying the namespace it will throw an error, 
        because these are defined in the std namespace in the iostream.h file
        
    #### Why “using namespace std” is considered bad practice?
        
        - whenever we wish to access a class or type defined in the std namespace, it imports the entirety of the 
        std namespace into the current namespace of the program.
 
        // Use cout of std library
        std::cout << "Something to display";
        
    #### Consider using typedefs 
    
    typedefs save us from writing long type definitions. In our example 1, we could solve the problem using two typedefs one for std library and another for foo
        
        #include <iostream>
 
        typedef std::cout cout_std;
        cout_std << "Something to write";
        
    We can also use the statement for importing a single identifier. To import only std::cout we could use 

        using std::cout;
        
    If you still import entire namespaces, try to do so inside functions or limited scope and not in global scope.
    
        #include <isotream>

        void foo()
        {
            // Inside function
            // Use the import statement inside limited scope
            using namespace std;

            // Proceed with function
        }
        
## Executing main():

Execution of every C++ program begins with the main() function, no matter where the function is located in the program.

    From C/C++ programming perspective, the program entry point is main() function. From the perspective of program execution, 
    however, it is not. Prior to the point when the execution flow reaches to the main(), calls to few other functions are made, 
    which setup arguments, prepare environment variables for program execution etc.




